 * osmrail - OpenStreetMap filter for railway-related features
 * Copyright (C) 2011 Paul D Kelly

Version 0.3, 4 July 2011

Synopsis:
This program can be used to extract all railway-related features from
an OpenStreetMap XML file ("planet dump") that has been compressed
with bzip2 compression. Currently extracted are:
 * Any features that have a tag with a key of "railway"
 * Any features that have a tag with a key "route" and value "train"
 
Operation:
The name of the bzip2-compressed planet dump should be provided as a
command-line argument. The filtered data will be written to standard
output and is uncompressed (it may be re-compressed if desired by
piping through bzip2).

All information regarding feature version, timestamp, most recent
edit, etc. is stripped and only the most basic information required
for use of the data is retained in the output. This includes:
For nodes: ID, latitude and longitude, and all tags.
For ways: ID, all member nodes, and all tags.
For relations: ID, all member nodes and ways and their roles, and all
tags.

Example command-line usage:
./osmrail great_britain.osm.bz2 > great_britain_rail.osm

Build Instructions:
There is a single mandatory dependency of the libbzip2 library, which
can be obtained from http://bzip.org/ if necessary.
There is no configure script and the program is compiled simply by
running 'make' in the source directory.
It can be installed if necessary (the default location is in
/usr/local/bin) by running 'sudo make install'.

Technical Details:
The program makes three passes of the input file.
In the first pass, a list of all nodes, ways and relations that have
tags matching the railway data filter is saved, together with a list
of all member nodes and ways of any matching relations.
In the second pass, the list of nodes is extended to include all nodes
that are referenced by any matching ways.
In the third and final pass, details of all nodes, ways and relations
that have previously determined to match the filter are printed to
standard output.
This three-pass mode of operation ensures the memory requirements for
the program are very modest and that it can easily operate on massive
input files.

TODO: Nested relations are not currently handled. This should be fixed
- the most obvious solution is to extend the multi-pass approach to
require even more passes.

--
paul@stjohnspoint.co.uk
Berlin, July 2011
